Security incident disclosure — July 2026 (#3465)
huggingface/blog: security-incident-july-2026.md

## What we did

- Fixed the root vulnerability: the dataset code-execution paths used for initial access are closed.
- Eradicated the attacker's foothold across the affected clusters and rebuilt the compromised nodes.
- Revoked and rotated the affected credentials and tokens, and began a broader precautionary rotation of secrets.
- Deployed additional guardrails and stricter admission controls on our clusters.
- Improved our detection and alerting so a high-severity signal pages a responder in minutes, any day of the week.

We are working with outside cybersecurity forensic specialists to investigate the issue and review our security policies and procedures. Finally, we have also reported this incident to law enforcement agencies.

## Analyzing an AI-driven intrusion

The attack was initially surfaced through AI-assisted detection. Our anomaly-detection pipeline uses LLM-based triage over security telemetry to separate real signals from the daily noise, and it was the correlation of those signals that flagged the compromise.

> To understand what a swarm of tens of thousands of automated actions did, we ran LLM-driven analysis agents over the full attacker action log - 17,000+ recorded commands - to reconstruct the timeline, extract indicators of compromise, map the credentials touched, and separate genuine impact from decoy activity. Thanks to this approach, we were able to do in hours what would usually take days, and match the adversary's speed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To understand what a swarm of tens of thousands of automated actions did, we ran LLM-driven analysis agents over the full attacker action log, comprised of more than 17,000 recorded events. This allowed us to reconstruct the timeline, extract indicators of compromise, map the credentials touched, and separate genuine impact from decoy activity. Thanks to this approach, we were able to do in hours what would usually take days, and match the adversary's speed.
```

Just to make it look a bit less AI-y.

The choice of models we could use for this analysis was constrained in a way we did not anticipate; we describe this below.

### The asymmetry problem

When we started the log analysis, we first used frontier models behind commercial APIs. This did not work: the analysis requires submitting large volumes of real attack commands, exploit payloads, and C2 artifacts, and these requests were blocked by the providers' safety guardrails, which cannot distinguish an incident responder from an attacker. We ran the forensic analysis instead on GLM 5.2, an open-weight model, on our own infrastructure. This had a second benefit: no attacker data, and none of the credentials it referenced, left our environment.

> This experience points to an asymmetry. The attacker assembled its offensive system from openly available components and was bound by no usage policy. Defenders who rely on hosted frontier models are subject to guardrails that can make those models unusable precisely when they are needed. In our case, an open-weight model was a necessary part of the response. This is not an argument against safety measures on hosted models; it is a reason to treat capable open models as part of the security equation.

Reviewer: Why was the attacker not affected by the same guardrails we experienced?

Author: Could be a model jailbreak or an open source model

Reviewer 2: Good question, perhaps the attacker used open-weight / self-hosted models with no guardrails at all

Reviewer: Yes, but the word "asymmetry" seems to point to them using frontier models. Perhaps we could just say that we don't know if it was a jailbreak. Not very important, I just thought other readers would wonder the same.

Reviewer 3: I think the attacker literally has the advantage of time: he could have spent days jailbreaking, we don't have days. But it should be explicit on why.

Author: ```suggestion
This experience points to an asymmetry. We do not know which model powered the attacker's agents, whether a jailbroken hosted model or an unrestricted open-weight one. Either way, the attacker was bound by no usage policy, while defenders who rely on hosted frontier models are subject to guardrails that can make those models unusable precisely when they are needed. In our case, an open-weight model was a necessary part of the response. This is not an argument against safety measures on hosted models; it is a reason to treat capable open models as part of the security equation.
```

Good point, made it explicit that we don't know whether it was a jailbreak or an open model. The asymmetry holds either way.
